Ok

I'm watching the movie "The Founder". I've never posted in the middle of a film
before, but holy fuck; this necessitates. It's this insane story.

It starts with an idea that make the world a better place, with amazingly
exciting entrepreneurship, vision and passion and an indomitable drive to
succeed. Persistence, is the handle on this, an important callback will be made.
Because slowly, we start to see that the events we see playing out are not so
~one sidedly good~. Kroc wants a different type of greatness than the McDonald
brothers. The brothers see life, Kroc sees war.

The core of this story is a battle between two incredibly American ideals. We
start with a montage of Kroc driving through America. Flag. Cross. Flag. Cross.
Flag. Cross. "Let's add the golden arches there". This movie is about the battle
between the nostalgic vision of a perfect America. I don't want to get political
about this, so I won't. But this movie turned the McDonald brothers into a
picturesque pair of good ol' boys. They're genuinely talented inventors, a
fantastic team and a fantastic family. But all for a local (derogatory) result.

In this story, pure American capitalism agrees with pure American ingenuity that
something is beautiful. The Venn Diagram of what is holy to these two frameworks
of thoughts overlaps so completely, that a deal is made. "Do it for America",
Kroc says.

Kroc is simple. There're people for him, and people against him. Another
parallel to Jobs. These men with 4 letter names and the mindset of a CEO - egos
big enough to think in ways simultaneously beyond my comprehension and yet
also... so very naturally - One of the many differences between me and them is
that they don't seem to have the mixed moral code that I do. That many people
do.

This movie is a testament: at the top, there's no one overseeing you. And that
lets loose the fucking DEMONs. I believe that every single human being is
incentivized like Roger from Lord of the Flies. But for most of us, love or
empathy or a desire to not hurt people reins in antisocial behavior. We're more
inclined towards altruism.

I've learned religious morality. Care for our people, and everyone is our
people. Unless they're trying to kill us, those people are evil. I've learned
the morality of capitalism - success, money is a tangible metric here, so
nothing else matters. And I've learned the social morality of wherever I grew
up, which is a curious mix of the two, seasoned heavily with independent ideas
from every single person I've thought about, myself included.

To see such a complex character with a single dominating dimension of morality
is exhilarating and terrifying. A man will go on a crusade. There will be blood.
A paladin answers only to his god, and Ray Kroc was a paladin of capitalism. A
paladin is a moral extremist with no respect for people operating amorally.

"If my competitor was drowning, I'd walk over and put a hose in his mouth". This
is moral, under one framework. How can people grow up to see the world like
this? How far am I from thinking like this? Am I delusional to think for a
second that I'm any different? When I'm older, and trying to put food onto my
family's table or a roof over my son or daughter's head, would I not go to any
lengths?

Luckily, I'll never have to have to live with the guilt of making that decision
one way or another. Im the rich family in Parasite. I was born privileged, and
I've worked my whole life to fit into a system that lets me live the American
dream. I foresee a future where I can work 40 hours a week for the rest of my
life and be guaranteed the ability to feed, clothe, shelter, and provide for
myself and most likely others. That's the default outcome for me. I can get
lucky or unlucky and things may change, but I've grown up with that future
guaranteed.

Anyway. Capitalism is fucking wild. Kroc is fucking wild. This all started from
a great idea, from entrepreneurship, a desire to build and grow and "do it for
America".

===

Done writing for now. Scratched the itch
